.TH DOWNLOAD 1
.SH NAME
download \- load program into SUN test machine 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B download
[ option ] ...
[ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Download
takes an absolute binary program image (SUN a.out format)
and copies it to the frontend file
.I /tftpboot/a.out
for the backend sun to use when booting.
.I Download
determines which backend SUN the user has reserved, or finds a free
backend SUN if the user does not have a backend SUN reserved.  Once
a backend is found,
.I download
uses TCP to send the binary program image to the associated front end.
Note that local net broadcasts are used to find free backend SUNs
so downloading is only allowed to SUNs connected to the local net.
.PP
Loading the object program takes time proportional to the size
of the program itself.
In two seconds, download will transfer about 56K bytes over the ethernet
using TCP.
.PP
.I Download
transfers the user's program as specified in the command line.
If no program name is given,
.I a.out
is used.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI \-c "CLASS"
Class.
Use a machine in the class
.I CLASS.
The default class is SUN.
If the user already has a backend reserved in class
.I CLASS,
then it will be used.  If the user already has a backend reserved, but
it is in a different 
class, then it will be released before a new one is reserved.
If no machines are available in class
.I CLASS
a message indicating this will be printed.
See also
.I busers,
which displays which class each backend machine belongs to.
.TP
.BI \-m "MACH"
Machine.
Use the backend machine named
.I MACH
if it is available.
If the user already has a different machine reserved, it will be
released before the new machine
.I MACH
is reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
busers(1), odt(1), odtunlock(1)
.SH FILES
.ta 1.6i
/tmp/xinu/*   Local lock files.  Named by user's login id
.SH BUGS
Currently it only works to download to a backend SUN.  You can
download from a frontend SUN or VAX.  In future versions
you will be able to download from anything to anything.
