.TH ODT 1
.SH NAME
odt \- connect user's terminal to a backend \s-2SUN's\s0 console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odt
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Odt
connects a terminal on the SUN (or VAX)
to a backend SUN's console line so the output
of the backend SUN appears on the terminal screen and characters
typed at the 
keyboard are sent to the backend SUN.
\f2Odt\f1 sets the backend SUN's tty line to raw mode, and the SUN
(or VAX) terminal to 
cbreak mode.
The connection can be broken by killing the odt process (e.g., by
typing the interrupt character (e.g., CONTROL-C).
.PP
When \f2odt\f1 receives a backslash from the terminal,
it switches to raw mode to read
one character, after which it switches back to cbreak mode.
The backslash escape allows the user to send characters like CONTROL-C
to the backend SUN even though they are normally interpreted as signals.
As a special case, an escaped null character (octal 0) causes \f2odt\f1
to force the backend SUN line into a break condition for 1 second.
This is useful for halting the processor and trapping to the SUN monitor
program.
.PP
Options are:
.TP
.BI \-c "CLASS"
Class. Connect to a machine in the class
.I CLASS
if one is available.  The default class is SUN.  If the user
already has a machine
reserved in the class
.I CLASS,
then the reserved machine
will be used.  However, if the user already has a machine
reserved in a different class, then it will be released before the new
machine is reserved. If no machines are available in the specified class
then a message to that effect will be printed.
.TP
.BI \-m "MACH"
Machine.
Use the backend SUN named
.I MACH
if it is available.  If the user already has a backend SUN reserved, then
it will be released before the new machine
.I MACH
is reserved.  If machine
.I MACH
is unavailable, then a message to that effect will be printed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
busers(1), download(1), odtunlock(1)
.SH FILES
.ta 1i
/tmp/xinu/*   Local lock files.  Named by user's login id
.SH BUGS
Avoid suspending odt (CONTROL-Z) if possible since it will leave the
terminal line in cbreak mode.


